Next we're gonna talk about union and
intersection types.
We've seen or and and for
types a couple of times, really just or
so far, but
we're gonna dive deep into them.
We're gonna learn how to understand
what this means, and we're gonna lean
heavily on this mental model of thinking
about types as sets of allowed values.
So just to help us understand
what's going on, so
we can we can build our mental model
with an evidence-based approach.
Where we can kind of create situations for
TypeScript to tell us stuff, and
we can prove to ourselves that
it works in a particular way.
Let's create two sets here,
we've got evens, even numbers under 10,
and then we've got 1 through 5,
which is the numbers 1 through 5.
These are two sets.
And if we drew these on a Venn diagram,
they would look like this, right?
2 and 4 are in both sets, but
low numbers has 1, 3, and
5 they're not even, and evens has 6 and
8, which are both greater than 5.
So those are not shared by the sets.
Union types, this is or
in TypeScript for types.
TypeScript uses the pipe symbol for
this, which makes it easy to remember,
because it's kind of conceptually related
to double pipe, which we know from
JavaScript is how we can express an or
logical Boolean operator.
In the above example, if we wanted to
create the set that is represented
by 1 through 5 or evens,
what effectively we're saying is you're
allowed in this set if you belong
to either of these sets, right?
If the bouncer's at the door to let each
value into the set, if you're less than 5,
you're good, if you're 1 through 5,
you're good, also if you're even,
you're also good.
We accept all of these values, and
that's why we get this set here.
This is what you would see in
TypeScript as well 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
8, you could think of this almost like
we're taking all of the first set.
And then Evens, we're gonna go through and
we'll check to see if something's already
in the set, and if it's already in there,
we won't do anything.
But it's gonna find 6 and 8, and
it's like, I'm gonna add these to the set.
It's almost like some for loop behavior
is happening behind the scenes.
So one thing that I want
us to ask ourselves here,
there are two different
modes we can think about.
There's what values is
a type willing to accept?
And then on the other hand,
what guarantees do we have,
what can we depend on being true for
every member of that set?
So for example, here,
well what values can it accept,
anything in either set,
but what can we assume?
Well, if we needed to pass something
that was of this type to a function
that only wanted even numbers, we
couldn't do that, there are odds in here.
There's a possibility that it's
the number 1, that's not even, so
you can't pass for an even if you're
the mix of these two sets together.
And you can't pass for a number between 1
and 5 either, because you could be 6 or 8.
So there's sort of two
ways to think about it,
what values are allowed versus
what guarantees do we have?
That'll be a common theme here.
So let's think about intersection types,
this is the opposite, well, this is and
for types.
It's the opposite in some way, which I'll
save that for the fancy finish here.
You can think of this as and for types,
TypeScript uses this ampersand, or
and operator.
And again, like you probably use and
and in logical Boolean operators and
conditions if you're just
writing regular JavaScript.
So hopefully easy to remember there, and
let's look at the set 1 through 5 and
evens.
What we would end up with is this set,
we'd end up with this set, right?
It's only 2 and 4, it's only
the things that are shared by the sets.
When we're saying and, we're not saying
all of the values in this set and
all of the values in the other set.
We're saying, all of the values that
are in this set and the other set, right?
And what passes is 2 and 4,
you have to be a member of both.
So, sometimes it's easy to get
confused about which is the and, and
which is the or,
why do we call it an intersection type?
When we're using the and sign,
right, it makes us think that
it's the two bubbles together.
Just remember that when we describe types,
we're describing a requirement,
a constraint, if you will.
And what we're saying here is
you must pass both constraints.
There's two bouncers in a row, you've
gotta be in both or we don't let you in.
Whereas up here,
look either, either works,
maybe there are two doors with a bouncer
for each set, and you can try both,
and you get in one way or
the other, right?
So that's why this is the smaller set.
Now if we think about what
values are allowed, well,
it's very strict here,
you have to meet both requirements.
But in terms of what we can assume
about these values, well, if we had
a function that wanted even numbers,
could we use this, are 2 and 4 even?
Yes, and
if we had a function that demanded that we
only pass numbers between 1 and
5, can we use this?
Sure, so
we kind of get the benefits of both sets,
we can pass for
both because we're in that intersection.
So it's sort of two different
ways to think about this.
What is the type willing
to accept as a value, and
then what guarantees do we have about
every single member of that set?
And in this case, it's both even and
digits between 1 and
5 meets both requirements
So there you go,
values allowed in the set,
there's your first piece
of the mental model.